README.md, before:

# Gaiwan

## Style

We use neoformat with:

- Haskell: britanny
- All other: prettier

## Language Features

A Gaiwan program is specified as a series of computation steps to be performed
in order. Each step has one or more input buffers and one or more output
buffers.

### Kinds of operations

Gaiwan distinguishes between two kinds of operations: mapping and shuffling.

#### Mapper

If a mapper takes n input buffers, and has m output buffers, a mapper must
generate an m-tuple of values derived from the n-tuple on the input.

#### Shufflers

Move the data in one or multiple buffers. At the moment, shuffles only allow
rearranging elements in buffers, but not between them.

In the future, a mapper can be used to combine multiple buffers into one (or
more) elements.

### Acting on multiple buffers

We can work with multiple buffers by separating the expressions in the shuffler
and mappers with a semicolon.

### Loops

A step can be repeated (like a for loop with):

```
...  |  3:i { ... steps to repeat (using i) ... } | ...
```

is equivalent to:

```

...  |        ... steps to repeat (using 0) ...
     |        ... steps to repeat (using 1) ...
     |        ... steps to repeat (using 2) ...   | ...
```

## Implementation

The input program is converted into one long list of
[PipeLineStep](src/Pipelining.hs). Each of these steps describe the list of
input buffers and output buffers and how the input buffer is converted to the
output buffer.

### Optimizations

#### Repeated mapping/shuffling

If multiple mappers are chained, they can be unified to one. If multiple
shuffling are chained, we can compose the shuffle operations.

A map chained with shuffler is not optimized.

### Backend

We use OpenCL as a backend for doing the computations.

Commit message:

refactor: sufflers now return a list of array accesses

README.md, after:

# Gaiwan

## Style

We use neoformat with:

- Haskell: britanny
- All other: prettier

## Language Features

A Gaiwan program is specified as a series of computation steps to be performed
in order. Each step has one or more input buffers and one or more output
buffers.

### Kinds of operations

Gaiwan distinguishes between two kinds of operations: mapping and shuffling.

#### Mapper

If a mapper takes n input buffers, and has m output buffers, a mapper must
generate an m-tuple of values derived from the n-tuple on the input.

#### Shufflers

Move the data in one or multiple buffers. At the moment, shuffles only allow
rearranging elements in buffers, but not between them.

In the future, a mapper can be used to combine multiple buffers into one (or
more) elements.

Shufflers should always end with a semicolon separated list of array acesses where the accessesd arrrays are arguments.

```
shuffer(i, A, Alen, B, Blen){
  A[i] ; B[i] ; A[i]
}
```


### Acting on multiple buffers

We can work with multiple buffers by separating the expressions in the shuffler
and mappers with a semicolon.

### Loops

A step can be repeated (like a for loop with):

```
...  |  3:i { ... steps to repeat (using i) ... } | ...
```

is equivalent to:

```

...  |        ... steps to repeat (using 0) ...
     |        ... steps to repeat (using 1) ...
     |        ... steps to repeat (using 2) ...   | ...
```

## Implementation

The input program is converted into one long list of
[PipeLineStep](src/Pipelining.hs). Each of these steps describe the list of
input buffers and output buffers and how the input buffer is converted to the
output buffer.

### Optimizations

#### Repeated mapping/shuffling

If multiple mappers are chained, they can be unified to one. If multiple
shuffling are chained, we can compose the shuffle operations.

A map chained with shuffler is not optimized.

### Backend

We use OpenCL as a backend for doing the computations.
